Nagios is a network monitoring solution that helps you in recognizing and solving problems that can occur over.
Let's say you have a network of servers and workstations when something goes wrong on a server,
you're left wondering what it was which server isn't working and how am I going to fix it..
What nagios does is=>
Allows you to monitor different server metrics to determine their status.
this allows you to know whether it's running properly or not, then 
if something does go wrong, nagios will notify you and tell you exactly where the problem is.
Nagios can notify you in different ways like emails or sms alerts.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WHAT IS NAGIOS?
Nagios is an open source monitoring system for computer systems.
It was designed to run on the Linux operating system and can monitor devices running Linux, Windows and Unix operating systems.
Nagios software runs periodic checks on critical parameters of application, network and server resources.
For example, Nagios can monitor memory usage, disk usage, microprocessor load, the number of currently running processes and log files. 
Nagios also can monitor services, such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3), Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and other common network protocols. 

WHY WE NEED NAGIOS TOOL?
Here are the important reasons to use Nagios monitoring tool:
1.Detects all types of network or server issues
2.Helps you to find the root cause of the problem which allows you to get the permanent solution to the problem
3.Active monitoring of your entire infrastructure and business processes
4.Allows you to monitors and troubleshoot server performance issues
5.Helps you to plan for infrastructure upgrades before outdated systems create failures
6.You can maintain the security and availability of the service
7.Automatically fix problems in a panic situation

FEATURES OF NAGIOS?

    Relatively scalable, Manageable, and Secure
    Good log and database system
    Informative and attractive web interfaces
    Automatically send alerts if condition changes
    If the services are running fine, then there is no need to do check that host is an alive
    Helps you to detect network errors or server crashes
    You can troubleshoot the performance issues of the server.
    The issues, if any, can be fixed automatically as they are identified during the monitoring process
    You can monitor the entire business process and IT infrastructure with a single pass
    The product’s architecture is easy writing new plugins in the language of your choice
    Nagios allows you to read its configuration from an entire directory which helps you to decide how to define individual files
    Utilizes topology to determine dependencies
    Monitor network services like HTTP, SMTP, HTTP, SNMP, FTP, SSH, POP, etc.
    Helps you to define network host hierarchy using parent hosts
    Ability to define event handlers which runs during service or host events for proactive problem resolution
    Support for implementing redundant monitoring hosts

ARCHITECTURE OF NAGIOS (https://www.javatpoint.com/nagios)
The architecture of Nagios is built on the basis of server-client architecture.
The server of Nagios usually run on a host and the plugins run on the remote server/ or remote host which are to be monitored.
The plugins of Nagios collect the useful data and send them to the process scheduler, which displays the information over the graphical user interface (GUI).
Following are the three main components in the architecture of Nagios application:
1.Scheduler     2.GUI     3.Plugin

SCHEDULER:The scheduler is the server part of the Nagios system. This component checks the plugins at regular interval and according to their results perform some action.
GUI:It is a user interface of the Nagios system, which is displayed on the web pages generated by the CGI. GUI can be a button to red or green, graph, sound, etc.
The button of green color becomes red color on GUI, when the plugins returns an error or warning.
PLUGINS:Plugins is a component of the Nagios system, which is configurable by the users. This component detects the services and return the results to the server of Nagios.

APPLICATIONS OF NAGIOS
Nagios application monitoring tool is a health check & monitoring system for a typical Data Centre, comprises all type of equipment’s such as:

    Server & Network Nodes
    Application monitoring from a single console
    Application Monitoring with transaction-level insights
    Monitor Middleware & Messaging Components
    Customizable Reports and Dashboards
    UPS Backup System
    Bio-Metric Identification System
    Temperature & Humidity Control System (Sensing Mechanism)
    CCTV/NVR System
    Storage Subsystem (NAS&SAN)
    
ADVANTAGES OF NAGIOS APPLICATIONn
Following are the benefits or advantages of Nagios:
    This application is an open-source software, so we can use and edit it freely.
    It provides various plugins, which are free to download and develop.
    You can easily understand the plugin architecture.
    The main advantage of this application software is that, it quickly detects the failed services, servers, and the batch jobs.
    It also monitors or detects the failures of network and protocols quickly.
    This software application also handles the warnings and critical situations.
    We can also set up a monitoring system on various machines across multiple locations, so that they communicate all their outputs to the central Nagios server.
    
DISADVANTAGES OF NAGIOS
Following are the limitations or disadvantages of Nagios:
    If we want to add the advance features of Nagios, then these features are not available in its free version, but only available on the application of Nagios XI, which is very expensive to use.
    The interface of the Nagios core is confusing.
    This application software cannot manage the network but only monitor the network.
    It cannot monitor the throughput of a network.
    In this application, there are various files of configuration, which are very hard for the user to configure them.
    This Nagios application treats each device as a host.

NAGIOS PRODUCTS:
Nagios has proven popular among small and large businesses, as well as internet service providers (ISPs), educational institutions, government agencies, healthcare institutions, manufacturing companies and financial institutions.
Users can choose among free and paid options, depending on the needed services and support.
    1.Nagios Core=The service that was originally known as Nagios is now referred to as Nagios Core. 
Core is freely available as an open source monitoring software for IT systems, networks and infrastructure. 
Core contains a wide array of infrastructure monitoring through allowing plug-ins to extend its monitoring capabilities.
    2.Nagios XI=Nagios XI is an extended interface of Nagios Core, intended as the enterprise-level version of the monitoring tool. 
XI acts as monitoring software, configuration manager and toolkit.
XI must be purchased from Nagios Enterprises.
Atop the same features as Core, XI adds preconfigured virtual machines (VMs), a web configuration user interface (UI), performance graphing, a mobile application, dashboards, scheduled reporting, technical support through email and more.
Nagios XI monitors IT infrastructure components such as applications, OSes, networks and system metrics. 
Plug-ins are supported for these infrastructure components to expand on XI's monitoring capabilities.

NAGIOS STRUCTURE
*A user can choose to work in the command-line interface (CLI) or select a web-based graphical user interface (GUI) in some versions of Nagios and from third parties. 
Nagios' dashboard provides an overview of the critical parameters monitored on assets.
*Based on the parameters and thresholds defined, Nagios can send out alerts if critical levels are reached. 
These notifications can be sent in different ways, including email and text messages. 
An authorization system allows the administrator to restrict access.
*Nagios runs both agent-based and agentless configurations. 
Independent agents are installed on any hardware or software system to collect data that is then reported back to the management server. 
Agentless monitoring uses existing protocols to emulate an agent. 
Both approaches can monitor file system usage, OS metrics, service and process states and more.
*Nagios supports plug-ins that are stand-alone add-ons and extensions so the user can define targets and which parameters on these targets to monitor. 
Nagios plug-ins process command-line arguments and communicate the commands with Nagios Core.




